---
title: "COMP2521"
date: 2025-05-31
difficulty: 3/5
categories: HARD
---

## Course Description
COMP2521 is UNSW's Data Structures and Algorithms subject. This course is a pre requisite for pretty much
every other course so kinda like 1511 in that sense. There is in fact a hurdle requirement (as of 25T1) which
is:

Final Exam:
- 40% overall
- 25% (15/60) in the programming section
- 25% (10/40) in the theory section

Standard hurdle: 50% or more overall in the whole course

## My experience
So, COMP2521. What can I say about COMP2521. Well, for starters, I think its worth knowing that I failed this course the first time I did it and if you don't take this course
seriously, chances are you are gonna suffer the same fate as me. This in my opinion is one of those courses that you'll do in your degree that actually amount to something. 2521
is as interesting as it is hard. Everytime I'd learn something and it clicked it felt like the fucking Oppenheimer soundtrack was playing in the background or something so the 
satisfaction you get from this course is second to none. 

## Tips
My tips? Well, the main tip and the only tip that I have to give you is Leetcode. Just, fucking, leetcode. That's it. If you ask me what I did differently in my second attempt it was
literally just leetcode. I feel like in this course although the topics are interesting they are not given enough time for people to grasp. They finished recursion which is arguably one of
the hardest and most confusing topics (in my opinion) in like 2 days. So, the simple tip for everyone who's reading this and is gonna do 2521 is leetcode. Do the questions given by the goat
himself Jedavidson first and then do extra questions for each topic on leetcode. Additionally, I found Hayden Smith's 2521 lectures to be a big help so if you're in holidays right now doing
abolutely nothing I recommend you start there. I had Kevin Luxa as my lecturer and he was alright. Boring yes but I feel like that's just me lacking a high attention span. The tutors are quite 
literally your best friends in this course. Ask them questions, talk to them, ask them for your help. Also, if your someone who doesn't converse that much with others, I highly suggest you change
that stupid attitude. Believe me. 2521 was made bearable largely due to the fact that there were actually people I was looking forward to meet in the labs so please make friends if you can.
